>> In October of 2018,
"Quanta Magazine"
published an article titled
"Planets Found to be Larger
Than the Disks They Come From."
And it reads, "A
new research paper
suggests that planets
may be forming in ways
beyond our understanding.
In system after
system, planets are
much larger than the
universe's biggest star.
This seems to defy math,
or at least reason;
planets shouldn't be larger than
the stuff they're made from."
If this is the
case, could there be
a new theory that explains how
planetary bodies are formed?
And could modern day
physics and astronomy
be running into problems
with the theories that
have shaped our
understanding of the universe
as we know it today?
>> Wilhelm Weber, best
remembered as the co-inventor
of the first electromagnetic
telegraph, once wrote,
"The history of the world is
none other than the progress
of the consciousness
of freedom."
But what does
electromagnetism have
to do with the
consciousness of freedom?
>> In the late 18th
and 19th centuries,
electricity and magnetism
were uppermost in most
scientists' minds.
And there were some
key figures then--
Gauss Maxwell, Weber,
and several others
who put together what
we understand today
about electricity and magnetism.
It actually starts with
Wilhelm Weber's most important
character.
Wilhelm Weber was one of
Germany's top physicists
in the middle of
the 19th century.
He was a meticulous
experimenter.
In fact, he determined a lot
of the physical constants
associated with
electromagnetism,
and the electromagnetic
unit was named after him.
What's not generally
known is that he produced
an electric force law, which
was an extension of Coulomb's
electrostatic law.
Now Coulomb's law is
a very special case
where you have two
charged particles
and they're not moving.
They're just in position and you
measure the force between them.
Wilhelm Weber said, what if
one particle is stationary
and the other one is
moving at some angle,
or even accelerating with
respect to this particle?
He deduced a new
force law, which
showed that these
particles behave
in ways which are very
important from the viewpoint
of atomic theory.
In fact, he produced the
atomic model in the 1850s
before the atom
had been deduced,
how an atom was constructed.
Wilhelm Weber, with
his extended force law,
showed that two charged
particles of the same sign
could actually, within
a particular radius,
achieve stable orbits
around one another.
This is something
that's not contemplated
at all by scientists today.
It's always assumed that two
similarly charged particles
will always repel one
another to infinity.
Weber said that this wasn't
necessarily the case.
So this has implications
for nuclear theory
and atomic theory.
It also has, strangely
enough, implications
for gravitational
theory, because
in the electric
universe gravity is
a form of dipole electric force,
which manifests just as if
planets are charged particles.
So that Weber's force laws
in the electric universe
become the mathematics
to be used in determining
planetary orbits.
>> If this is true, how could a
person understand Weber's force
law versus Coulomb's law?
Coulomb's law
explains how strong
the force will be between
two electrostatic charges.
Electrostatic means electric
charges without any motion.
Weber's force law
is quite different.
All particles, regardless
of size and mass,
follow Newton's third law,
which is for every action,
there is an equal and
opposite reaction.
Therefore, each particle
has conservation
of particle momentum.
>> Well, let's put
it this way then.
And this allows people
to think about it
and go and test it maybe.
Very recently, there
was an experiment
done on the International
Space Station, which
showed the motion
of charged droplets
about a oppositely
charged needle.
And this is a prime example
of an experiment that
could be used to test
Weber's force law,
because the particles
that go into orbit
are not stationary
as in Coulomb's law.
They're moving with respect
to the central object,
and they're
accelerating as well.
And both of these aspects
of the orbiting particles
is taken into account only by
Weber's electric force law.
And it could also give us some
tests of the electric universe
model of gravity in particular.
>> If Weber's law explained a
different universe operating
on electric force, how
did the science change?
>> Cosmology has been described
as the queen of the sciences.
It was the intellectual
umbrella under which
all other sciences sit.
And they have to
sit comfortably.
The current big bang
cosmology doesn't
fulfill that requirement.
It has no real connection to us
as individuals on this planet.
It concerned mostly
with questions
about the distant universe,
and also about particle physics
questions, which have been badly
formulated, simply because it's
all based on mathematical
descriptive theory instead
of physics.
Wilhelm Weber had given
a physical explanation
and he'd stated his
principles clearly.
James Clark Maxwell, in
the mid-19th century,
came up with his laws
of electromagnetism.
They're a little unwieldy,
and Oliver Heaviside should be
mentioned as having been
the person who produced
the condensed
mathematical formulae,
which are used today
and called Maxwell's.
Maxwell's had the question
though that was not
answered later by the
modern physics approach.
And that is, what is
this material medium?
And he sort of pointed out
some of the characteristics.
It required the ability to
pass a force through matter
as if the matter wasn't there.
Maxwell took the
mathematical view
that the field theory was
all that was necessary.
Mathematics is descriptive,
it's not explanatory.
That was one of
the turning points
in the history of science,
in my opinion, which
is not generally recognized.
For mathematics,
it doesn't matter.
Mathematics can advance without
any reference to science
because it is a
separate discipline.
But mathematics has
overtaken science.
It's like the workers
in the back room
have taken over the business.
That is where I
believe, in my study,
that science left
the rails, and we
have been heading
further and further
into the wilderness since.
>> If we indeed fell
further into the darkness
of a descriptive science, as
the electric universe theory
suggests, what transpired next
that fed the destructive loop
of our ancestors?
>> It seems to me, looking
at the history of thinking,
the history of science, that at
the time of the First World War
was one of those times when
mankind was going slightly
crazy.
In other words, try to repeat
the catastrophes of the past,
as Velikovsky would have put it.
And as a result, there was
a disruption in our science.
Technology blazed ahead because
it always does at time of war
because technology
then is applied.
There's an awful lot of
impetus towards application
of technology, and science
tends to hide behind technology
and saying, you know, the
advances of technology
are due to advances in science.
That's not true.
There've been very few advances.
In fact, I can't think
of any major advances
since the time of
Einstein and Niels Bohr,
and both of those people
were writing their theories
at the time of the
First World War.
So after the war,
we had surrealism
in science, introduced by
Einstein in particular.
He torched our understanding
in physics of time and space.
He did all of this
using equations
where there were no
definitions for some
of the fundamental aspects
of those equations,
like energy and mass.
I think it plays into
this idea that we
have to adopt the power
of the gods ourselves,
behave with godlike power.
And that became very
evident with the advent
of nuclear weapons.
And of course, you can
see the two together then,
the Armageddon fear and
the destructive power
of the gods in our own hands.
>> If this is true, how could
one of the greatest scientists
of our time have overlooked
discoveries from an earlier
generation?
>> It's not necessarily
anything to do with the science.
It's to do with
the personalities
and the events of the day.
And so we ended up with what's
known as settled science.
And I'm always reminded
of that photo taken back
in the 1920s I
think it was, or it
might have been early '30s, of
all of the great minds lined
up, sitting on chairs
in the front rows,
and the others
serried behind them.
And I look at that as
being settled science.
And that's where it began.
But science is never settled.
When the scientists
are puzzled--
and they're perpetually
puzzled, I should say--
by the results
they get, they say,
it's back to the drawing board.
But what do they do
when they get there?
They don't rub off
and start again,
which is what physics
is supposed to do.
If you're having a
problem with your results,
go back and look at the original
idea and then trace it forward
and see where you've
made assumptions.
>> The electric universe
theory suggests there might be
a different explanation
for E equals mc squared.
>> Talking about the meaning
of E equals mc squared,
there is no explanation at
present for E equals mc squared
in physical terms.
The electric universe
says that energy
is a measure of the
motion of matter
in relation to all the rest
of the matter in the universe.
In other words, there is
universal connectivity,
which is quite different
from the model at present
that we've presented of
the universe of isolation
by huge distances and by
time, and the only connection
is by the puny force of gravity.
The universe is
connected in real time
by the direct electric force.
It is not mediated by any
force at the speed of light
because the only thing that
travels at the speed of light
is an electromagnetic
disturbance, not
the electric force.
This is a fundamental
error in modern science.
As for mass,
philosophers have tried
to explain mass for
centuries without success.
And it's still a mystery.
The result of that has
been that Higgs boson
has been invented, which is
a kind of cosmic treacle.
So if you try and move
against the treacle,
you feel resistance.
In the electric
universe, mass is
the response of matter
to the electric force
in the form of distortion
rather than acceleration.
And I say this because in
the electric universe model,
matter is a repeated pattern.
So that you have the atomic
model, which is very successful
and when you've got
one successful model,
it's a good idea to see
if you can repeat it
at a different scale.
And if you do so, and
you say the electron
and the proton
have structure just
like little atomic systems,
then if you give it a poke
electrically, it's
response will be
to distort because the
charged particles will
tend to rearrange themselves
into the ones that
are orbiting into elliptical
orbits at right angles
to the force.
That's how you get
the magnetic force.
The magnetic force is
always at right angles
to the electric force.
And that's the reason,
because matter,
like electrons and protons,
have real structure.
So thus, energy and
mass are defined
in the electric universe
simply, in electrical terms.
>> Can electrical terms
explain the speed of light?
>> The speed of light is an
electromagnetic disturbance
in a medium.
So empty space is not empty,
it's full of a medium.
And the suggestion was
made by a scientist
back in the '70s,
which I've followed up
and I believe is
correct, and that
is that the universe is
full of these neutrinos,
these particles that can
move through matter almost
as if it's not there.
It fulfills the requirements
that Maxwell had for his ether,
because Maxwell's
equations require a medium.
Einstein did away
with the medium,
even though he
knew it was needed,
and never explained how he could
do that and get away with it.
And now people accept
Einstein's version,
which physically cannot work.
So the electric
universe followed up,
and it seems to
make a lot of sense.
There's your speed of light
depends on the medium,
and of course, we know
that light slows down when
it goes through air and water.
And the reason is
that those media
have different electrical
characteristics
to the medium of space.
And that means also
that if the density
of the medium of space changes,
then the speed of light
will vary.
And this also means then that
around stars and galaxies where
the matter is more
concentrated, the speed of light
will vary in such a way as
to give you this, what they
call gravitational lensing.
It's not gravitational at all.
It's an effect of gravity upon
the medium that surrounds it,
just like an atmosphere.
So it can bend light
like an atmosphere.
It's got nothing to do with warp
space or any of that nonsense.
The concept of the
ether was effectively
done away with by Einstein
because his theory does not
require an ether.
in fact, it's inimical to it.
Einstein himself said that if
an ether drift is discovered
by Michelson and Morley in
their ether drift experiment,
then his theory of
relativity is invalid.
It was an interesting
time because it
would be a pressure on those
performing the experiment
to not find the drift.
And in some respects, I
think that did happen.
What was found was a drift which
was much less than expected.
That's all.
>> In physics, ether is defined
as the existence of a medium,
a space-filling substance
or field of thought to be
necessary as a transmission
medium for the propagation
of electromagnetic or
gravitational forces.
>> If you think about it, the
atmosphere of the Earth is held
to the Earth by gravity.
The ether, being
a material medium,
will suffer the same effect.
So there will be a
gravitational hold
on a certain amount of
this ether, which will then
rotate with the Earth.
So that the drift
will not be what
would be expected if you
were traveling like a bullet
through the atmosphere.
And that is, you can detect
the rush of the air past you.
Instead, you're getting
this little drift.
So it was more or less
discarded as, I think,
as experimental error.
>> In 1933, an American
physicist, Dayton Miller,
published a paper detailing
over 20 years of experimental
research into the measurement
of the ether drift.
The results,
presented by Miller,
indicated the
existence of an ether.
>> Dayton Miller performed the
ether drift experiment more
comprehensively at different
altitudes and different
conditions, and he did
find an ether adrift.
And he could even determine
the direction of this drift.
So in other words,
he had canceled
Einstein's contribution in
the theory of relativity.
But no one wanted
to know, and so it
was discarded, discredited.
It's the usual kind of thing,
unfortunately, in science.
Science is not self-correcting,
as they advertise.
It's only self-correcting
in a trivial sense,
small advances here and there
and small breakthroughs.
But big breakthroughs
require a revolution, what's
known as a paradigm shift.
And revelations are very
hard to bring about.
So we've floundered
for a century
with a revolution in waiting,
the electric universe
revolution.
>> If a paradigm
shift is needed,
were there signs of it early on?
>> One of the odd things
that happened, I think,
at the time of Einstein and Bohr
is that people who were arguing
very strongly against both
Einstein and Bohr's story
of how things work were ignored.
You don't hear about them.
But if you go back--
and this is something that
students are not told to do
or are advised to
do, to compare ideas
at the time of these sudden
switches in thinking.
Because if you do, you go back
and you read the arguments
against each of
these men, and you
realize that there were
damn good arguments
against the theories
of relativity
and Bohr's quantum theory.
But it was just the times.
You really have to get
the historical context
and the way people were
thinking at the time
to understand the
progression of science.
And in this case, it was
progression sideways,
off the track.
Of course, once Einstein
was idolized as the greatest
genius of all time,
mathematicians
began to see this as
a great opportunity.
And so they then
came up with the idea
that mathematics is the way
to understand the universe.
If you do physics, most of it
is a hard slog in mathematics.
They don't talk about
the physical objects,
the electrons and the protons,
and the so-called neutrons.
They deal with the
mathematics involved.
And the mathematics
can only describe
what these things are doing,
what these particles are doing,
what the Earth is doing
moving around the sun, what
the moon is doing
moving around the Earth.
It's a description only.
It's not an explanation.
So when people also assumed
that the Big Bang theory was
the correct way to go,
what they didn't point out
is that it is an
almost exact replica
of the religious
in the beginning,
and let there be
light and so on.
It was the scientists'
version of Genesis.
>> If you look at the
earliest cosmologists,
like the ancient
Greeks for example,
their cosmology was describing
the creation that we're talking
about, not the cosmology that
modern science are talking
about.
Modern science is
fixated on this Big Bang
idea of the origin of
all things or the origin
of the universe countless
billions of years ago.
That isn't what the
ancient cosmologists
were talking about.
They were talking
about the creation
of the polar configuration
that we're talking about.
And so for example, one of
the earliest Pythagorean
cosmologists was a
guy named Philolaus.
And he believed that fire was
at the center of the universe.
And so it resided in the middle
of heaven in a giant hearth.
Well, as it turns
out, that's just
exactly what the
ancient Mayans believed,
the ancient people
of India believed.
And so that is a
old-fashioned idea from myth
and ancient religion
that became incorporated
into the early cosmologies.
And that is what the early
cosmologies were all about.
They were handed down,
mythical traditions
that have nothing to do
with trying to explain
the origin of things.
But they're talking
about a specific event
in history called creation.
So much of modern cosmology
is just a house of mirrors.
Instead of paying attention
to what the ancient peoples
actually said about
creation, they
want to speculate about events
countless billions of years
ago, and they want to run
endless computer simulations
showing planets on the
same orbit as today
rather than go back and look
at the ancient documents that
prove beyond a shadow of a
doubt that the planets were
on different orbits.
And so from a very
real standpoint,
the ancient cosmologies
and the ancient myths
give the lie to this
modern cosmology that
dominates science nowadays.
But that's really the
position we're in now.
We're trying to get
these guys to look
at the ancient pictographs
that show a different sun, that
show an impossible sun.
We're trying to get them to look
at the ancient documents that
describe the planet Venus moving
as a comet, the planet Mars
raining disaster right
over the North Pole.
And we are confident that
our evidence is correct
and that we'll be vindicated
at some point in time.
>> If the history of the world
and the idea of creation has
stifled our freedom
and consciousness,
could there be more proof?
In 1970, electrical engineer and
plasma physicist Hannes Alfvén
accepted the Nobel Peace
Prize for his work in magnetic
hydrodynamics.
His speech, however,
had a familiar tone
of unprogressive science.
>> Hannes Alfvén received his
Nobel Prize in 1970 and warned
astrophysicists that they
were heading for a crisis
because they were dealing with
equations which did not apply
to the very plasma they
were trying to understand.
Yet he made that statement
in his Nobel Prize acceptance
speech, which is almost unheard
of, where he admitted that he
had made a mistake
in his earlier work,
but astrophysicists still cling
to that earlier work of his
and treat plasma
as a kind of a gas.
Gravity works towards a
center, not along a line.
So it's not going to draw
material into a thin filament.
What's more, these
filaments of constant width
are over huge distances,
hundreds of light years
and thousands of
light years even.
Sometimes they connect with
other filaments in the same way
as we see in electrical
laboratories.
So what we're looking
at is cosmic lightning
in a molecular cloud.
Now, this is what's
been observed
and it was a huge puzzle
when it was first observed.
But it was actually
predicted by Hannes Alfvén,
the father of what's
known as plasma cosmology,
decades before.
And as this material
becomes heavier,
the lightning bolt moves on and
leaves all this heavy material
in a string, which then
gravity takes over,
as Hannes Alfvén said.
The celestial system
stars are the results
of gravity taking over after
the electric forces moved on.
So you have stars
forming, solid objects.
So stars do not have
hydrogen in their centers.
>> Could this discovery
prove how stars are formed?
And is it possible Hannes
Alfvén's work on plasma
disrupted the status quo so much
that it couldn't possibly fit
into the narrative of
destruction that humans had
designed thousands of years ago?
Could Hannes Alfvén's work be
the key to understanding how
the universe was formed
and how it operates?
We dive deeper into the creation
of the stars themselves next.
[MUSIC PLAYING]